.\" @(#) InfoWatcher Version 1.11  03/17/1999 Jon Christensen (j.christensen@computer.org)  Protech Engineering Services
.TH slm 8 "03/17/1999"
.SH NAME
slm \- log monitoring and filter program 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B slm 
.RB [ " \-c "
.IR config_file " ]"
.RB [ " \-l "
.IR logfile " ]"
.RB [ " \-s "
.IR sleeptime " ] "
.RB [ " \-P "
.IR pattern_separator " ]"
.RB [ " \-A "
.IR action_separator " ]"
.RB [ " \-D "
.IR debug_level " ]"
.RB [ " \-S "
.IR Single_Pass " ]"
.RB [ " \-v "
.IR version " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B slm 
is designed to monitor system activity and filter messages based
on specified filter patterns.
.B slm
requires a configuration file which contains
a listing of logs to monitor, pattern(s)
to filter on, 
action(s)
to perform when each pattern is matched, and a standard message 
to be used when performing the listed actions.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI \-c " filename"
Use
.I filename
as the configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-l " logfile"
Use 
.I filename 
to log messages 
to.
.TP
.BI \-s " sleeptime"
Tells
.B Monitor(8)
how long (in seconds) to wait 
between each run.
.TP
.BI \-P " pattern_separator"
Tells
.B Monitor(8)
to use
.I pattern_separator
when parsing the patterns in the configuration file.
The default is a comma.
.TP
.BI \-A " action_separator"
Tells
.B Monitor(8)
to use
.I action_separator
when parsing the actions in the configuration file.
The default is a comma.
.TP
.BI \-D " debug"
Turns on debugging.  This will generate debug messages printed to STDOUT.
The # and type of messages is determined by the Debug_Level.
.TP
.BI \-S " Single Pass"
Turns on Single Pass mode.  This will check all the monitored logs and
print out ALL messages that match the filter patterns to STDOUT.  Kind of
a quick check on system health.
.TP
.BI \-v " version"
Prints the version of the program.
.PP
If Monitor is called with no options, it is the same as typing the 
command line
.IP
slm -c ~/slm.config -l ~/logs/slm.log -s 30
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slm (5),
.BR ssm (8),
.BR ssm (5),
.BR signal (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
       Protech Engineering Services
                 11/14/1998

.PP
NOTICE
The following is the copyright notice from the original 
swatch program. The InfoWatcher program was originally based 
on Version 2.2 of swatch but has been extensively modified, 
and contains fixes to multiple bugs found in the original 
swatch program.

#
# Created on Wed Aug 12 16:12:13 PDT 1993 by 
# Todd_Atkins@CAST.Stanford.EDU
#
# Copyright (1995) The Board of Trustees of the Leland 
# Stanford Junior Univeristy.  Except for commercial resale, 
# lease, license or other commercial transactions, 
# permission is hereby given to use, copy, modify, and 
# distribute this software -- by exercising this permission 
# you agree that this Notice shall accompany this software 
# at all times.
#
# STANFORD MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY 
# KIND CONCERNING THIS SOFTWARE.
#

.SH NOTES
Upon receiving a HUP signal slm will re-read the
configuration file and restart.
slm will terminate gracefully
when it receives a QUIT, TERM, or INT signal.
