.\" @(#) InfoWatcher Version 1.11  03/17/1999 Jon Christensen (j.christensen@computer.org) Protech Engineering Services 
.TH slm 5 "03/17/1999"
.SH NAME
slm.config \- configuration file for the log monitor and
filter portion of the Info Watcher program:  slm(8)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ~/slm.config
.SH DESCRIPTION
This configuration file is used by the 
.B slm(8)
program to determine:
What logfiles to monitor, 
what types of expressions/patterns to look for, what type
of action(s) should be taken when a pattern is matched, and
what message to print to the slm log.
It contains three main sections seperated by the following
tags:
.PP
.IP
FILES, 
FILTERS,
MESSAGES
.PP
The tags should be on a line by themselves at the beginning
of each section.  Comments and blank lines are allowed anywhere
in the config file.
.PP
The FILES section contains three TAB separated fields:
.IP
Filename             Host		LogInfo
.PP
The Filename field contains the fully resolved pathname
of a logfile that needs to be monitored.  The logfile
needs to be readable by the user running the Monitor
process.
.PP
The
.B second
field contains the name of the host associated with the
monitored logfile.  This information is used when formatting log
messages to indicate which host (when multiple hosts are being 
monitored) the messages originated from.
.PP
The
.B third 
field contains information to better indicate the location
of the errors from a particular log.
.PP
The FILTERS section contains five TAB separated fields:
.nf

pattern[,pattern]   action[,action]   MSG#   [[[HH:]MM:]SS]  [Count]
.fi
.PP
The first field specifies a pattern(s) to be matched.
A pattern must be a regular expression which
.B perl(1)
will accept.  Patterns are 
very similar to the regular expressions accepted by
.B egrep(1).
Multiple patterns may be specified by using a "," 
seperated list.
If desired the last filter pattern can be used to catch unexpected 
messages.  The MSG# should be:  LR0000.  This MSG# will cause the
program to use the original message (along with some formatting 
info) when performing the defined action(s) instead of a 
predefined message.
.PP
The second field is used to define the action(s) to take
when the message matches the defined pattern(s).  Multiple 
actions may be specified by using a "," seperated list.
The following actions are acceptable:
.TP 20
.B log 
Log the matched line.
The MSG# specified in the third field will be printed to the log along
with some formatting information which includes:  Date/Time, System name,
MSG#, Severity Level, and Host.
.TP
.B exec=command
Execute
.IR command "."
The
.I command
may contain variables which are substituted with fields from the matched 
line. A
.I $N
will be replaced by the
.IR Nth " field in the line. A"
.IR $0 " or"
.I $*
will be replaced by the entire line.
.TP
.B ignore
Ignore the matched line.
.TP
.B mail[=address:address:...]
Send
.IR mail " to"
.I address(es)
the same entry that is (or would be) entered in the log (default
address is the user who is running the program).
.TP
.B write[=user:user:...]
Use
.B write(1)
to send matched lines to
.IR user(s) "."
.PP
The
.B third field is mandatory and contains the MSG# of the message 
to write to the logfile when the specified pattern is matched.  
The definition of the message numbering scheme is defined
in the description of the Messages section below.
.PP
The
.B fourth 
field (which is optional unless the fifth field is specified) can 
contain a time interval.
The time should be in one of three formats:
.TP 15
.B SS
.I -- Just seconds
.TP
.B MM:SS
.I -- Minutes and seconds
.TP
.B HH:MM:SS
.I -- Hours minutes and seconds
.PP
If an interval
is specified and more than one identical line is received,
.B Monitor
will not perform the actions specified until the specified time has elapsed.
If the action that is performed uses the input line then the number of
lines will be included in the line.
.PP
The
.B fifth
field (which is optional) can contain a message count.
The count should be an integer value. 
.PP
If a count 
is specified and more than (count) identical lines are received within
the specified interval,
.B Monitor
will not perform the actions specified until the interval has elapsed.
If the count is not exceeded during the interval, the count is reset.
.PP
The MESSAGES section contains three TAB separated fields:
.IP
Message#      Severity       Message Text 
.PP
The first field contains a Message #.  The numbering scheme is
as follows:
.nf

Message Blocks:

      0000 - 1999-  INFO
      2000 - 3999-  WARN
      4000 - 5999-  ERROR
      6000 - 7999-  SEVERE
      8000 - 9999-  FATAL
.fi
.PP
The last character of the message number indicates the Severity 
level of the message.
The second field is the Severity level of the message.  Severity 
levels are defined as follows:
.nf

Message Levels:

     INFO-   Informational messages.  No action required.
     WARN-   Warning messages.  An abnormal system event 
             hasoccured but processing recovered.
     ERROR-  Error messages.  An abnormal system event has 
             ocurred. Processing in one or more subsystems
             is continuing in crippled mode.
     SEVERE- Severe messages.  An abnormal system event has
             ocurred. Processing in one or more subsystems
             is halted.
     FATAL-  Fatal messages. An abnormal system event has 
             ocurred. Processing in one or more subsystems 
             has failed.
.fi
.PP
The following messages are already defined within the program: 
.nf
     INFO  LR0001  Startup Message
     INFO  LR0002  Received a SIGHUP.  Restarting.
     INFO  LR0003  Received a SIGALRM.
     WARN  LR2001  Received a SIGTERM.  Terminating.
     ERROR LR4001  Error opening file to monitor.
     FATAL LR8001  Could not Fork.  Fatal error.
.PP
The last field is the Text of the message to be printed to the logfile.
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
.PP
.B FILES
.PP
.B /var/adm/messages		myhost		messages
.PP
.B FILTERS
.PP
.B /buffer overflow/      log,mail=root   LR4100	01:00
.PP
.B MESSAGES
.PP
.B LR4100 ERROR   Buffer overflow. Call SA.
.PP
In this example a log entry which contains the string "file system full" 
will be logged and mail message sent to root.  Also, multiple instances of
the message will not be logged if they appear within a minute of the 
first one.  Instead the first message will be logged and mailed, and the 
other messages acted upon after the time interval has expired. 
.IP
1998/11/18-21:23:34  INFO  LR0000  myhost/myhost:  messages - buffer overflow. Call SA.  => ** 20 seen in 00:01:00
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slm (8),
.BR ssm (5),
.BR ssm (8),
.BR perl (1),
.BR egrep (1),
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
	Protech Engineering Services
		 11/14/1998

.PP
NOTICE
The following is the copyright notice from the original 
swatch program. The InfoWatcher program was originally based 
on Version 2.2 of swatch but has been extensively modified, 
and contains fixes to multiple bugs found in the original 
swatch program.

#
# Created on Wed Aug 12 16:12:13 PDT 1993 by 
# Todd_Atkins@CAST.Stanford.EDU
#
# Copyright (1995) The Board of Trustees of the Leland 
# Stanford Junior Univeristy.  Except for commercial resale, 
# lease, license or other commercial transactions, 
# permission is hereby given to use, copy, modify, and 
# distribute this software -- by exercising this permission 
# you agree that this Notice shall accompany this software 
# at all times.
#
# STANFORD MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY 
# KIND CONCERNING THIS SOFTWARE.
