.\" @(#) InfoWatcher Version 1.11  03/17/1999 Jon Christensen (j.christensen@computer.org) Protech Engineering Services 
.TH ssm 5 "03/17/1999"
.SH NAME
ssm.config \- configuration file for the slm companion
program:  ssm(8)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ~/ssm.config
.SH DESCRIPTION
This configuration file is used by the 
.B ssm(8)
program to determine:
What processes to monitor, 
what hosts to monitor,
what File Systems to Monitor and how large they should be before
printing a warning message, and
what FDF systems to check for possible errors and offline disks.
It contains four main sections seperated by the following
tags:
.PP
.IP
PROCESSES, 
HOSTS,
FS,
FDF
.PP
The tags should be on a line by themselves at the beginning
of each section.  Comments and blank lines are allowed anywhere
in the config file.
.PP
The PROCESSES section contains two TAB separated fields:
.IP
Process             Host
.PP
The Process field contains the name of a process 
that needs to be monitored to ensure it is running.
.PP
The
.B second
field contains the name of the host associated with the
monitored process. 
.PP
The HOSTS section contains a single field:
.nf

HostName
.fi
.PP
This field specifies the host to be monitored.  A PING is used
to determine if the Host is alive or Not.
.PP
The FS section contains two TAB separated fields:
.IP
FS      Percent 
.PP
The first field contains the name of the File System to be monitored.
.PP
The second field contains the percentage full at which to print an Error
message to the System Log. A Warning message is printed to Monitor_Check's
log if the file system approaches 10% of this number.
.PP
The FDF section contains a single field:
.nf

HostName 
.fi
.PP
This field specifies the FDFSERVERHOST to be monitored.  An "fdf df" and 
"fdf fdfstat" are used to determine if there are any problems.
.PP
.PP
.SH EXAMPLE
.IP
.PP
.B PROCESSES 
.PP
.B loader		myhost
.PP
.B HOSTS 
.PP
.B myhost 
.PP
.B FS 
.PP
.B /			70 
.PP
.B FDF 
.PP
.B myhost 
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slm (8),
.BR ssm (8),
.BR perl (1),
.BR egrep (1),
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
	Protech Engineering Services
		 03/11/1999

.PP
NOTICE
The following is the copyright notice from the original 
swatch program. The InfoWatcher program was originally based 
on Version 2.2 of swatch but has been extensively modified, 
and contains fixes to multiple bugs found in the original 
swatch program.

# Created on Wed Aug 12 16:12:13 PDT 1993 by 
# Todd_Atkins@CAST.Stanford.EDU
#
# Copyright (1995) The Board of Trustees of the Leland 
# Stanford Junior Univeristy.  Except for commercial resale, 
# lease, license or other commercial transactions, 
# permission is hereby given to use, copy, modify, and 
# distribute this software -- by exercising this permission 
# you agree that this Notice shall accompany this software 
# at all times.
#
# STANFORD MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY 
# KIND CONCERNING THIS SOFTWARE.
