.\" @(#) InfoWatcher Version 1.11  03/17/1999 Jon Christensen (j.christensen@computer.org) Protech Engineering Services 
.TH ssm 8 "03/17/1999"
.SH NAME
ssm \- Process, Host, File System, and FDF monitoring program.  It is a companion to the slm program.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ssm 
.RB [ " \-c "
.IR config_file " ]"
.RB [ " \-l "
.IR logfile " ]"
.RB [ " \-s "
.IR sleeptime " ] "
.RB [ " \-r "
.IR report_file " ]"
.RB [ " \-D "
.IR debug_level " ]"
.RB [ " \-S "
.IR Single_Pass " ]"
.RB [ " \-v "
.IR version " ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ssm
is designed to monitor system processes, hosts, File Systems, and FDFs based 
on a user defined configuration file.
.B ssm
requires a configuration file which contains
a listing of processes, hosts, File Systems,
and FDFs to monitor. ssm is intended to be run
out of /etc/inittab with the restart option set.
This allows it to continually monitor the system
as well as ssm.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 15
.BI \-c " filename"
Use
.I filename
as the configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-l " logfile"
Use 
.I filename 
to log messages 
to.
.TP
.BI \-s " sleeptime"
Tells
.B ssm (8)
how long (in seconds) to wait 
between each run.
.TP
.BI \-r " report file"
Tells
.B ssm(8)
to write 
.I an HTMLized status file tha gives the overall status
of the system. 
.TP
.BI \-D " debug"
Turns on debugging.  This will generate debug messages printed to STDOUT.
The # and type of messages is determined by the Debug_Level.
.TP
.BI \-S " Single Pass"
Turns on Single Pass mode.  This will check all the monitored items and
print out ALL messages to STDOUT.  Kind of
a quick check on system health.
.TP
.BI \-v " version"
Prints the version of the program.
.PP
If ssm is called with no options, it is the same as typing the 
command line
.IP
ssm -c ~/ssm.config -l ~/logs/ssm.log -s 30
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR slm (5),
.BR ssm (5),
.BR signal (3)
.SH AUTHOR
.nf
        Protech Engineering Services 
                 03/11/1998

.PP
NOTICE
The following is the copyright notice from the original 
swatch program. The InfoWatcher program was originally based 
on Version 2.2 of swatch but has been extensively modified, 
and contains fixes to multiple bugs found in the original 
swatch program.

#
# Created on Wed Aug 12 16:12:13 PDT 1993 by 
# Todd_Atkins@CAST.Stanford.EDU
#
# Copyright (1995) The Board of Trustees of the Leland 
# Stanford Junior Univeristy.  Except for commercial resale, 
# lease, license or other commercial transactions, 
# permission is hereby given to use, copy, modify, and 
# distribute this software -- by exercising this permission 
# you agree that this Notice shall accompany this software 
# at all times.
#
# STANFORD MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES OF ANY 
# KIND CONCERNING THIS SOFTWARE.
#

.SH NOTES
Upon receiving a HUP signal ssm will re-read the
configuration file and restart.
Monitor will terminate gracefully
when it receives a QUIT, TERM, or INT signal.
